VE-Builder

	The data translator that is contained in VE-Builder has now been 
upgraded to support multiple scalars for Star-CD™ data. This capability 
allows the Deere analyst to utilize all six registers of Star-CD’s data 
storage. To use this new functionality of the translator a brief description 
of the Translator process will follow.
	To begin, data needs to be obtained from Star-CD™. To accomplish 
this, a *.vrt and *.cel file, written in ASCII, need to be written from 
Star-CD™ of the region of interest. This region can either be the complete 
CFD model or a subsection of the model. (Note: The Translator is now capable 
of sorting out shell cells therefore care does not need to be taken to only 
write cells that are fluid or solid cells to the *.cel file.) Now data needs 
to be written in a *.usr file from Star-CD™. This file also needs to be 
written in ASCII. The user can either choose to write only one vector, one 
vector and a scalar, one vector and two scalars or one vector and three scalars. 
The Translator doesn’t need a fixed number of scalars. It also does not mater 
whether all six registers or four registers are written to the *.usr file. 
The Translator will only read what the user tells it to 
read. (Note: The Translator now calculates the velocity magnitude from 
the velocity vector field therefore it is suggested that the velocity 
magnitude not be written out in the *.usr file from Star-CD™ as the field 
will be created automatically in the Translator.) Once the data is obtained 
from Star-CD™ a parameter file needs to be created for the Translator to read. 
A sample parameter file can be found in the Translator directory contained in 
the VE-Builder directory. In this parameter file the path to the *.usr, *.vrt, 
and *.cel file need to be specified. The next fields defined are the vector 
name and scalar names. The scalar names need to be in the same order as listed 
in the *.usr file. For example the first scalar name should match the fifth 
column of the *.usr, and the second name should match the sixth column. The 
following fields pertain to the transformations that need to be applied to 
the dataset. These fields are the rotations and translations for each coordinate 
direction. (Note: The rotations are not eulerian.) The scale field requires an 
integer that refers to the following list: 0-(No Scale), 1-(Custom Scale), 
2-(Meters to Feet), 3-(Millimeters to Feet), 4-(Inches to Feet), 
5-(Meters (1:12) scale to Feet). The output filename needs to be specified 
as listed in the example parameter file. The last flag specific refers to the 
manner in which the data is written to disk. It is recommended that the user 
use the write to disk option (1). This will create an ASCII file but should be 
efficient at creating the file. The file can then be converted to binary if 
desired by using the convertVTK2Binary tool.
	Now it is time to run the Translator. The user will first be prompted to 
enter what type of data is to be translated. For Star-CD™ the user will 
then be prompted to enter the parameter file name. This then concludes 
the translation of data. To check the data file after the translation 
process has completed, the scalar range tool can then be used to verify 
that each scalar is in the data file as well as each scalar’s range is 
as anticipated.
