VE-Builder

The data translator that is contained in VE-Builder has now been upgraded to
support multiple scalars with Star-CD data.  This capability allows the analyst
to utilize all six registers of Star-CD's data storage.  A brief description of
the translator process will follow.

To begin, data needs to be exported from Star-CD.  To accomplish this, a *.vrt
and *.cel file, written in ASCII, need to be written from Star-CD of the region
of interest. This region can either be the complete CFD model or a subsection of
the model.  (Note: The Translator is now capable of sorting out shell cells
therefore care does not need to be taken to only write cells that are fluid or
solid cells to the *.cel file.)  Solution data needs to be written in a *.usr
file from Star-CD.  This file also needs to be written in ASCII.  The Translator
doesn't require a fixed number of scalars: The user can either choose to write
only one vector, one vector and a scalar, one vector and two scalars or
one vector and three scalars.  It also does not matter whether all six registers
are written to the *.usr file: The Translator will only read what the user tells
it to read.  (Note: The Translator now calculates the velocity magnitude from
the velocity vector field, therefore it is suggested that the velocity magnitude
not be written out in the *.usr file from Star-CD as the field will be created
automatically in the Translator.) Once the data is obtained from Star-CD, a
parameter file needs to be created for the Translator to read.  

A sample parameter file (star.param) can be found in the Translator directory
contained in the VE-Builder directory.  In this parameter file, the path to the
*.usr, *.vrt, and *.cel file are specified.  The next fields defined are the
vector name and scalar names. The scalar names need to be specified in the same
order as listed in the *.usr file.  For example the first scalar name should
match the fifth column of the *.usr, and the second name should match the sixth
column.

The ROTATE and TRANSLATE tags are optional and pertain to the transformations
that are to be applied to the dataset.  These fields specify the rotations (in
degrees) and translations (in feet) for each coordinate direction.  (Note: The
rotations are not eulerian.)  
 
SCALEINDEX is an optional specification and allows the scale factor to be set
using the integer indices defined in translateToVtk.cpp.  

That is, 0 = No Scale, corresponding to a scale factor of 1.0; 
         1 = Custom Scale, indicating that the SCALEFACTOR tag will be used to
             specify a scale factor; 
         2 = Meters to Feet, corresponding to a scale factor of 3.28; 
         3 = Millimeters to Feet, corresponding to a scale factor of 3.28e-3; 
         4 = Inches to Feet, corresponding to a scale factor of 1.0/12.0; 
         5 = Meters (1:12) scale to Feet, corresponding to a scale factor of
             12.0*3.28.  

SCALEFACTOR is an optional tag (unless SCALEINDEX = 1 was specified). It allows
the user to specify a custom scale factor.

The OUTPUTFILENAME tag is optional and allows the user to override the default
output filename 'flowdata.vtk'.  

The WRITEOPTION tag is optional and allows for control over the manner in which
data is written to disk.  It is recommended that the user set WRITEOPTION=1 and
create an ASCII output file.  The file can then be converted to binary if
desired by using the convertVTK2Binary tool.

The user can start the translator by typing 'translateToVtk' from the command
line.  The user will first be prompted to enter what type of data is to be
translated.  For Star-CD, the user will then be prompted to enter the parameter
file name.  Alternatively, this can be performed in a single step by typing
something like, 'translateToVtk 2 your.star.param'. 

This concludes the translation of data.  To check the translation, the scalar
range tool can be used to verify the presence of each scalar and its range.

